The President:
One of the fundamental
challenges of our time is
building an economy where
everyone gets a fair shot,
everybody does their fair
share, and everybody plays by
the same set of rules.
And as many Americans rush to
file their taxes this weekend,
it's worth pointing out that
we've got a tax system that
doesn't always uphold
the principle of everybody
doing their part.
This is not just about fairness.
This is also about growth.
It's about being able to make
the investments we need to
strengthen our economy
and create jobs.
And it's about whether we as a
country are willing to pay for
those investments.
In a perfect world, of course,
none of us would have to pay
any taxes.
We'd have no
deficits to pay down.
And we'd have all the resources
we needed to invest in things
like schools and roads and a
strong military and new sources
of energy -- investments that
have always bolstered our
economy and strengthened
the middle class.
But we live in the real
world, with real choices and
real consequences.
Right now, we've got
significant deficits to close.
We've got serious investments
to make to keep our
economy growing.
And we can't afford to keep
spending more money on tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans who
don't need them and didn't even
ask for them.
Warren Buffett is one of
the world's wealthiest men.
But he pays a lower tax
rate than his secretary.
That's just the way
the system is set up.
In fact, one in four
millionaires pays a lower tax
rate than millions
of hardworking
middle-class households.
As Warren points out, that's not
fair and it doesn't make sense.
It's wrong that middle-class
Americans pay a higher share of
their income in taxes than some
millionaires and billionaires.
Now, this week, Members of
Congress are going to have a
chance to set things right.
They get to vote on what
we call the Buffett Rule.
It's simple: If you make more
than $1 million every year,
you should pay at least the same
percentage of your income in
taxes as middle-class
families do.
On the other hand, if you make
less than $250,000 a year --
like 98% of American
families do --
your taxes shouldn't go up.
That's all there is to it.
It's pretty sensible.
Most Americans
support this idea.
One survey found that two-thirds
of millionaires do, too.
So do nearly half
of all Republicans.
We just need some Republican
politicians to get on board with
where the country is.
I know they'll say that this
is all about wanting to raise
people's taxes.
They probably won't tell
you that if you belong to a
middle-class family, then I've
cut your taxes each year that
I've been in office, and I've
cut taxes for small business
owners 17 times.
But the thing is, for
most Americans like me,
tax rates are near their
lowest point in 50 years.
In 2001 and 2003, the wealthiest
Americans received two huge
new tax cuts.
We were told these tax cuts
would lead to faster job growth.
Instead, we got the slowest
job growth in half a century,
and the typical American family
actually saw its income fall.
On the flip side, when the most
well-off Americans were asked to
pay a little more in the
1990s, we were warned that it
would kill jobs.
Instead, tens of millions
of jobs followed.
So we've tried this
trickle-down experiment before.
It doesn't work.
And middle class families have
seen too much of their security
eroded over the past few decades
for us to tell them they're
going to have to do more because
the wealthiest Americans are
going to do less.
We can't stop investing in the
things that will help grow our
economy and create jobs --
things like education, research,
new sources of energy --
just so folks like me can get
another tax cut.
So I hope you'll ask your Member
of Congress to step up and echo
that call this week by
voting for the Buffett Rule.
Remind them that in America,
prosperity has never just
trickled down from
a wealthy few.
Prosperity has always
been built by a strong,
thriving middle class.
That's a principle worth
reaffirming right now.
Thanks, God bless you,
and have a great weekend.